How has the advent or the breakthrough
of the digital channel affected the
fashion industry?
It is a more sales channel that
can be seen as an opportunity
for brands, to enhance their
brand and above all to
expand internationally.
At the same time, it is a challenge at many levels.
This is a challenge, for example, in terms
of distribution.
You change the paradigm of where
you have to have the warehouses.
If you have to have warehouses that are
close to the customer, therefore it is
more difficult to consolidate the stock.
Consolidating the stock is relevant
to not have product flaws or
size flaws in certain sites.
But of course, how you can get someone
to serve in 24 hours from a warehouse
you have in another country is
a very big challenge.
So that stock deconsolidation,
I'll try to go a little around
the supply chain, is one of
the first points where it
begins to be something disruptive.
Even at product range level
it also affects you, which actually
goes a little earlier.
Why is?
Because typically retail has
a physical limitation as regards
the number of models that
fit you in certain square meters.
On the internet it is not so.
That's usually a benefit, right?
Operatively it is not because you
really have to keep a balance
between producing a lot of modeling
and that obviously the customer
likes.
It's a long tail theory, it's fantastic.
But operational at the cost
level is not too efficient.
Keep in mind that volume is one
of the most relevant factors
when negotiating with a supplier.
And then the level of complexity
that you need to do instead of making
2,000 color models, making 4,000
color models is exponential,
it's an incredible amount
of work.
Especially in fashion, we are not
talking about consumer products that
are stable in three or four years
because one model is changed every
three or four years.
The models are changed every
six months.
It is a lot of work.
I don't understand making more
of the same model.
I understand that is an advantage.
At the level of quantity yes, but
at the level of manufacturing different
models, which is what I mean with
a number of different options,
color models, different models.
It is a temptation that can
be made.
Sometimes online requests.
But it is a dangerous game because
operatively it may not be profitable.
In terms of design and number
of clothes, there is already
some breakdown.
In the logistics and distribution
sector, as you say, you
need warehouses.
And then obviously there is a very
relevant margin issue.
The online channel has been generated
with very high standards of
quality of service, very fast
deliveries and free returns.
This is a market standard that
is what it is, but that is difficult
to profit, especially when
there are very high returns.
Imagine, we are talking about
levels in the case of Spain,
close to 40% of the
returns, but in more mature
countries like Germany 60% of
the returns.
In countries like the United States
it is around 45%.
This is economically inefficient.
What usually happens is that people
ask for several sizes of the
same color model, knowing they
will return some.
Of course, this is fantastic
for logistics distributors,
but for the industry itself
it is complicated to manage.
Well, it is there.